
Elon Musk gave away his patents for good business

Silicon Valley now sits home to two contrasting philosophies. The first is embodied no better than by Apple, mired in patent litigation since the 2000s. The second, by Tesla, the electric-cars manufacturer, whose CEO Elon Musk has batted away patent litigation with mimetic ease. But it would be foolish to compare the two and vouch for Musk the altruist over Cook the Nozickian libertarian because each's enterprise floats on altogether different seas.

In a blog post on June 12, Elon Musk announced that he was making all patents on his Tesla electric cars available for the world for free - a brave move that cuts off access to billions of dollars in future money in deference to the open source moevement. Musk writes in the post that "receiving a patent really just meant that you bought a lottery ticket to a lawsuit". But this statement is redundant and beguiles the real reason which follows later on: "electric car programs (or programs for any vehicle that doesn’t burn hydrocarbons) at the major manufacturers are small to non-existent, constituting an average of far less than 1% of their total vehicle sales."

Musk is not battling a spiritual war to that he hopes to win by giving everyone access to good, zero-emission cars. He is not playing Volvo of the 1950s. He means to jumpstart an industry that is flagging by sharing the knowledge it desperately needs right now.

---

As the amount of innovation in electric vehicles mounted in the 2000s, a more daunting yet creatively inspiring problem took centrestage: how do you make EVs as convenient to use as fossil-fuel powered vehicles? In fact, this was actually a group of problems that had to be solved all at once or it wouldn't matter. On this front, two people would come to lead the charge: one earlier than the other, one more successfully than the other.

Shai Agassi's stroke of brilliance came with solving the problem he called range anxiety. It was the apprehension that gripped the driver of an EV about when the battery would run out or if it'd last a particular distance. After over 60 decades of regular use, the relationship between a fuel and its mileage is better understood for petrol and diesel, not so much for electrons and logic gates. Agassi solved this problem by coming up with the swapping station. Pull your EV in and have the battery swapped in 3 minutes or less, the time it would have taken to fill up your tank.

His company, 'Better Place', went on to support over a thousand EVs in Israel. In 2013, it went bankrupt and was liquidated.

As a businessman, Elon Musk must have enjoyed the moment (although I think the man is far more decent than that).

---

// OPENING: In 1907, the German inventor Nikola Tesla sold all his patents to Westinghouse, Inc., for a heavily discounted $216,000, including one for alternating current. In 1943, he died penniless. In 2014, another Tesla has given away its patents but signs are that this one will be way more successful. Through a blog post on June 12, Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla Motors, announced that his company would be releasing all the patents it held on the brand of successful electric vehicles (EVs) it manufactures. A line in the post indicates he wants to avoid future patent-infringement lawsuits. How nice.

// Patents cut both ways. More popularly, they safeguard information and prevent others from employing it without paying its originators a license fee. On the other hand, patents also explicitly earmark some information as being useful and worth safeguarding over the rest. They serve as decoys although that isn't their primary purpose. Even after open-sourcing patents on the Tesla EVs, Musk is the proprietor of a lot of technical and managerial information - on how to put his patents to best use, for one - that his competitors are not going to mastery easily.

// Musk's biggest competitor was the Israeli entrepreneur Shai Agassi, whose Better Place powered over a thousand EVs before going bankrupt in 2012. It was Agassi who, in 2002, came up with the idea of a battery-swapping station in 2002 that Musk elegantly showcased in 2013. It would seem Musk executed plans better. Then again, Musk also banked on new battery recharging technology that emerged after Agassi's time. Interestingly, another thing that helped Tesla rise was because it pulled an Apple - not in terms of the patents but by making its own hardware and software. Agassi, however, relied on extant manufacturers to supply models with a battery-swapping slot.

// After Agassi's departure, Tesla was king in a kingdom of frozen lakes. Ask Musk wrote in his post: "electric car programs (or programs for any vehicle that doesn’t burn hydrocarbons) at the major manufacturers are small to non-existent, constituting an average of far less than 1% of their total vehicle sales." Without competition, Tesla both controlled a market as well as left no room for errors for itself and witnessed no competing innovation to help support the wide market. Now, Big Cars like GM and Ford could leverage the patents to crawl into the EVs market.

// Software engineers have widespread standards, automated version control, and systems in place to easily license and/or share code.