1. According to a team of scientists from France - who announced their results on June 13 - which fish can experience anxiety the way humans can about impending activities?--A. Crayfish
2. Like in the previous question: According to an announcement on June 8 by a team of American scientists, humans are probably not the only animals to be able to feel regret, either. Which other animal can?--A. Rats
3. Some 400-650 km below Earth's surface, geologists have found a massive supply of a resource in volumes thrice as much as it is found above the surface. Although it exists in a different form - absorbed into a mineral called ringwoodite - scientists think it could help explain how Earth got the resources in the first place. What resource is this?--A. Water
4. In a discovery made at Canada's Kootenay National Park, paleontologists announced on June 11 that they had found the fossils of a 500-million year old ____ that could be the ancestor of all living vertebrates.--A. Fish
5. Fevernova has 32 panels. Teamgeist has 14 panels. Jabulani has eight panels. Brazuca has six panels. What are they?--A. The official footballs of the FIFA World Cup since 2002.
6. The ______ ____ can use its tongue to pull or lift objects as heavy as three times its own weight. Fill in the blank with the name of an amphibian species.--A. Horned frog
7. In computer science, the ______ test is used to determine if a computer is actually intelligent. The test is carried out by placing the computer behind a wall and having it chat with a human on the other side with text messages. A computer that can pass the test will be able to convince the human that it itself is a human. Name the British mathematician who came up with the test in 1950. His name was in the news last week (June 9) because a computer prorammed to imitate the character of a Ukrainian 12-year old had fooled 10 out of 30 human judges into believing it was an actual boy - but had flunked the test.--A. Alan Turing
8. On June 10, researchers working with the US military said they were developing a type of sticky boots for soldiers on the battlefield to climb walls like they were lizards. Name the lizard the researchers are studying for its uniquely sticky feet.--A. Gecko
9. According to the results of a research published on June 12, were dinosaurs warm-blooded or cold-blooded?--A. Neither; the temperature of the blood was somewhere in between.
10. June 13, 2014, was the 183rd birth anniversary of a British physicist who proved in 1865 that electricity and magnetism were actually related through electromagnetism. This accomplishment is thought the second-greatest in physics after Isaac Newton's studies on gravity. Name him.--A. James Clerk Maxwell